# CIFAR-10 Image Classification Based on Modified ResNet Model
CIFAR-10 is a multi-class dataset consisting of 60,000 32 × 32 color images in 10 classes, with 6,000 images per class. This dataset is uniquely structured into five training batches and one test batch, each batch containing 10,000 images. The test batch is composed of 1,000 randomly selected images from each class, ensuring a balanced evaluation platform. In this study, the purpose is to define a Residual Network(ResNet) model, a type of Convolutional Neural Network(CNN) that is suitable for tackling the problems regarding vanishing gradients, and uses CIFAR-10 dataset to train the designed model.

The primary goal of this project is to design a modified ResNet architecture that has no more than 5 million trainable parameters while striving to exceed a baseline accuracy of 80%. The model training was on Google Colab. To improve the performance and generalization ability, we preprocessed and augmented the data by randomly flipping, cropping, rotating and other techniques.  To optimize the training process, we have run 50 epochs. During the training, cosine annealing learning rate adjustment strategy was introduced, which modulates the learning rate in a cyclical pattern to aid in escaping local minima and refining model parameters. Additionally, we fine-tuned the loss function, specifically incorporating techniques such as label smoothing, to further enhance the model’s accuracy by preventing the model from becoming overly confident. These adjustments were instrumental in stabilizing the training process during the early phases and achieving better generalization on unseen data.

The number of total parameters is 4,693,962. Results demonstrated a consistent reduction in training and test loss. The accuracy for the validation batch in CIFAR-10 dataset reached 92%. In the test dataset, the accuracy of our modified ResNet was 83.4%.
